                   Welcome to Turbo Pascal 7.0
                   ---------------------------

This README file contains important, last minute information
about Turbo Pascal 7.0. In addition to this file, there are
several files in the \TP\DOC directory that you should browse.
See FILELIST.DOC in the \TP directory for a complete list of all
files distributed with this package.


TABLE OF CONTENTS
-----------------
 1. How to get help
 2. Minimum system requirements
 3. Installation
 4. New features
 5. Release notes
    - Additional documentation
    - Demonstration and utility program notes
    - Compatibility and known problems
 6. Important note for Borland C++ and Paradox 4.0 users
 7. Turbo Pascal and the OS/2 Workplace Shell


1. HOW TO GET HELP
------------------
If you have any problems with this product, please read this
file, the online documentation files in \TP\DOC, the online help
files, and the Turbo Pascal manuals first. If you still have a
question and need assistance, help is available from the
following sources:

1. You can use your modem to easily obtain assistance online.
   Borland maintains support forums on CompuServe, BIX, and
   GEnie. These forums put you in contact with Borland technical
   support engineers and thousands of programmers using Borland
   products. You'll be able get your questions answered and share
   information and ideas with others.

   You can also download the latest technical information, sample
   code, utilities, patches, etc., from these online services as
   well as from Borland's Download Bulletin Board Service
   (DLBBS).

   Access Borland's online services in the following manner:

   CompuServe
     GO BORLAND

   BIX
     JOIN BORLAND

   GEnie
     BORLAND

   Borland DLBBS
     You can reach the Borland DLBBS by dialing (408) 439-9096
     (up to 9600 Baud, 8 data bits, No Parity, 1 Stop bit). No
     special setup is required.

2. TechFax is a toll-free, 24-hour automated service that sends
   free technical information to your fax machine. More than
   1,000 documents discussing Borland software are available
   through TechFax. These documents provide valuable technical
   information that can be used as reference now and in the
   future.

   You can call TechFax at 1-800-822-4269 from any touch tone
   telephone and obtain any bulletins or documents that you need.

3. The Technical Support Hot Lines are there to help you with
   questions about installation, system configuration,
   compatibility, and usability. Lines are open from 6:00 A.M.
   to 5:00 P.M. Pacific Time at (408) 461-9177.

4. If you need an advanced level of support, Borland offers
   a new Advisor Lines service where you can get advice on program
   design, debugging, and performance tuning. Advisor Lines
   operate from 8:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M. Pacific Time at
   1-900-786-6080. Each call is $2.00/minute, with the first
   minute free (available in U.S. only).

When calling Borland's Technical Support, please keep your
manuals handy and have the program running. To simplify trouble-
shooting, please be prepared with the following information:

  o Product name, serial number, and version number.

  o Computer name and model and the name and model of any
    additional hardware (video adapters, modems, etc.).

  o Operating system and version number (to find the version
    number, type VER at any DOS prompt). If you are using
    Microsoft Windows, you can find the version number by
    selecting Help|About from Program Manager.

  o The contents of your AUTOEXEC.BAT and CONFIG.SYS files
    (located in the root directory (\) of your computer's boot
    disk).

  o The contents of your WIN.INI and SYSTEM.INI files located in
    your Windows directory (if you are running Windows).

  o A daytime phone number where you can be reached.

  o The specific steps necessary to reproduce the problem.


2. MINIMUM SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
------------------------------
Turbo Pascal 7.0 requires MS-DOS 3.0 or later.

TURBO.EXE, the real-mode integrated development environment
(IDE), requires at least 512 Kb of memory.

TPX.EXE, the new, high-capacity IDE can use up to 16 Mb of
extended memory and requires the following minimum configuration:

  Processor type  :  80286 or later
  DOS memory      :  640k
  Extended memory :  1 Mb available

On 80286 machines, it is recommended that you install a memory
manager such as HIMEM.SYS before using TPX. Refer to your DOS
manuals for more information on memory managers.

(Please note that TPX requires the files RTM.EXE and DPMI16BI.OVL
to be located on the path or in the same directory as TPX.EXE.)

When running TPX.EXE under Windows, make sure to create a Windows
.PIF file and specify a value of 0 in the XMS Memory KB Required
setting and at least a value of 2048 in the XMS Memory KB Limit
setting.


3. INSTALLATION
---------------
IMPORTANT: Turbo Pascal 7.0 is not intended to be installed over
any previous version of Turbo Pascal.

Use the INSTALL program to install Turbo Pascal. All files on the
distribution disks are archived and INSTALL will unarchive
them for you. INSTALL places them into subdirectories and
automatically creates configuration files for the command-line
compiler and the two integrated development environments (IDEs).

Installation of the full product requires approximately 6 Mb of
available disk space. (The installed product occupies about 4.5
Mb. However, about 1.5 Mb of temporary workspace is required to
unarchive very large ZIP files.) The actual disk space occupied
by this product and the amount of temporary work space required
will vary depending on your disk's cluster size. If you are using
a disk compression utility (e.g., Stacker), you'll need
substantially more temporary workspace to avoid a disk full error.
(The amount you'll need will vary and some systems might require
up to 8 Mb available disk space before running INSTALL.)

All further references to directory paths in this README file
assume you've used INSTALL's default directory structure.

To start the installation, place the disk labeled INSTALL in
Drive A:, and type A:INSTALL.


Floppy Disk Installation Notes
------------------------------
INSTALL's floppy disk installation option will only install the
command-line compiler, TPC.EXE, and the TURBO.TPL library on a
floppy disk.

If you want to run the TURBO.EXE integrated development
environment on a floppy-based system, you'll need to unarchive
TURBO.EXE of your choice by hand using the following
instructions.

Systems with greater than 360 Kb drives
---------------------------------------
Place the INSTALLATION DISK in Drive B. Place a blank, formatted
system disk in Drive A. Switch to Drive A and type:

  A> copy b:unzip.exe
  A> unzip b:tpl

Remove the INSTALLATION DISK from Drive B and place the Turbo
Pascal 7.0 distribution disk containing TURBO.ZIP in Drive B:

  A> unzip b:turbo

Remove the disk from Drive B. Turbo Pascal 7.0 is now installed
on your system.

360 Kb Systems
--------------
The TFLOPPY.ZIP archive contains a special version of TURBO.EXE
that can be run from a 360 Kb floppy disk. You'll need three
disks in order to install Turbo Pascal 7.0 on your system. First,
create a blank, formatted system disk and label it

  Drive A SYSTEM DISK (Source code, TURBO.TPL)

Next, create a blank, formatted disk (NOT a system disk) and
label it

  Drive B (TURBO.EXE)

Finally, create a third blank, formatted disk (NOT a system disk)
for use as a temporary.

Now you're ready to begin the installation. Place the Turbo
Pascal 7.0 INSTALLATION DISK in Drive B. Place the Drive A SYSTEM
DISK in Drive A. Switch to Drive A and type:

  A> b:unzip b:tpl

Remove the disk from Drive A and place the temporary disk in
Drive A. This disk will temporarily contain UNZIP.EXE and the
TFLOPPY.ZIP archive file. Now type:

  A> copy b:unzip.exe

Remove the INSTALLATION DISK from Drive B and place the Turbo
Pascal 7.0 distribution disk containing TFLOPPY.ZIP in Drive B:

  A> copy b:tfloppy.zip

Remove the distribution disk from Drive B. Label a third blank,
formatted disk in Drive B (NOT a system disk). Place the Drive B
(TURBO.EXE) disk in Drive B and type:

  A> unzip tfloppy b:

Remove the temporary disk from Drive A and replace it with the
Drive A SYSTEM DISK. Turbo Pascal 7.0 is now installed on your
system. Always switch to Drive A and type:

  A> b:turbo

to run Turbo Pascal 7.0 on your system. There is room on the
Drive A SYSTEM DISK to store your .PAS files. Note that this
special version of TURBO.EXE does not support saving startup
options (Options|Environment|Startup).


4. NEW FEATURES
---------------
Turbo Pascal 7.0 offers many new features, including:

  o TPX.EXE, a new, high-capacity integrated development
    environment (IDE) that allows you to edit, compile, browse
    symbols, and debug very large applications. TPX can use up to
    16 Mb of extended memory.

  o ObjectBrowser - Browse units, objects, and symbols while you
    edit your source code. Includes full cross-reference
    information for every identifier in your program.

  o Syntax highlighting - Assign unique text colors for symbols,
    reserved words, identifiers, strings, etc. You can also print
    your syntax-highlighted source code (bold, italics, etc.)
    from inside the IDEs.

  o Tools menu in the IDEs that enable you to transfer control to
    external programs, such as GREP or Turbo Assembler. You can
    add your own tools to the Tools menu in the IDEs.

  o Persistent symbols - TPX saves your program's symbol
    information across sessions so you can instantly browse or
    debug your program after exiting and then reloading the IDE.

  o User-installable Help files in the IDEs. Indexes from
    multiple Help files are automatically merged so you can
    perform keyword or incremental searches.

  o Local Menus - A click of the right mouse button (or Alt+F10)
    brings up a context-sensitive menu in both IDEs.

  o Optimizations, run-time library, and debugging enhancements

    o Now automatically recognizes 386 (or later) processors
      and uses fast 32-bit instructions for longint arithmetic
    o Redundant pointer load suppression
    o Faster text file I/O
    o Faster string Pos routine
    o Optimized sets
    o PChar support - Allows null terminated strings
    o Integer overflow checking {$Q+/-} - Integer, Word, etc
    o OBJ file line number information pass-through - Allows
      stepping through C or ASM code using the integrated
      debugger

  o Language extensions

    o Open array parameters - Allows safer, more flexible
      variable-length array parameters.
    o New OpenString type - Allows a procedure or function
      to accept any type of string parameter, even in the
      {$V+} state.
    o Constant parameters - Efficient, read-only value
      parameters.
    o Public/private sections - Allows public and private
      sections of objects to be declared in any order.
    o Typed @ operator {$T+/-} - Enforces type-checking when
      using the address (@) operator.
    o Inherited reserved word - Allows references to an inherited
      method without knowing the ancestor's name.

  o New standard procedures/functions

    o Assigned - Returns True if a pointer is not equal to nil
      (especially useful for procedure and function pointers).
    o Include - Adds an item to a set.
    o Exclude - Removes an item from a set.
    o Break & Continue - FOR, WHILE, REPEAT loop control.
    o Low & High - Return the low or high bounds of open array
      parameters or of any scalar type.

  o Turbo Vision enhancements

    o Data-validation objects.
    o New outliner object.
    o New methods for inserting/executing windows and dialog
      boxes.
    o Multi-state check boxes.
    o Cluster items that can be disabled.

  o Completely reorganized printed documentation with new
    tutorial programs.

  o Expanded online Help system covering all the new features.

See the "What's new" section of the User's Guide for more
information regarding the new features of Turbo Pascal 7.0.


5. RELEASE NOTES
----------------

ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTATION

  Changes and corrections to the printed documentation for Turbo
  Vision are in MANUAL.TV in the \TP\DOC directory. Additional
  documentation on TEMC and other utilities can be found in .DOC
  files in the same directory.


DEMONSTRATION AND UTILITY PROGRAM NOTES

  o DOC DEMOS - Source code to all of the examples in the
    documentation can be found in the \TP\EXAMPLES\DOCDEMOS
    subdirectory.

  o BGIDEMO SHOWS VESA SUPPORT - See BGIDEMO.PAS in the
    \TP\EXAMPLES\BGI directory for information on how to
    autodetect and use the new VESA16.BGI driver. It supports all
    standard 16-color VESA high resolution modes (800x600,
    1024x768, 1280x1024).

  o COMPILING DEMOS - There are new large demonstration programs
    that consist of multiple units each. Make sure you're in the
    directory that contains the demo source code before
    compiling. For example, to build TVFM.PAS, the Turbo Vision
    File Manager demo, change to the \TP\EXAMPLES\TVFM directory
    before doing a compile with either the integrated development
    environment or the command-line compiler.

  o SOURCE CODE TO UTILITY PROGRAMS - The integrated development
    environments' new syntax-highlighted printing relies on a
    print filter utility that you can modify. PRNFLTR.PAS can be
    found in the \TP\BIN directory.

    For an example of how to write a tool filter for the IDE, see
    GREP2MSG.PAS (the Tool menu's GREP message filter) in the
    same directory.


COMPATIBILITY & KNOWN PROBLEMS

  DOS
  ---
  o TURBO VISION 1.0 SOURCE - The virtual method table (VMT)
    format was modified to support dynamic methods (DMTs). You
    must update any code that relies on fixed offsets into VMTs.

    If, for some reason, you want to use Turbo Pascal 7.0 to
    recompile the Turbo Vision source code provided in the Turbo
    Pascal 6.0 Run-time Library Source Code product, change the
    following constant declarations to the values specified
    below:

      OBJECTS.PAS:
        TStream_Error = $0C;
        TStream_Flush = $10;
        TStream_Read  = $1C;
        TStream_Write = $28;
        ...
        TCollection_Error    = $0C;
        TCollection_SetLimit = $24;

      VIEWS.PAS:
        TView_GetPalette = $30;

  TPX (DOS Protected Mode)
  ------------------------
  o OLDER SYSTEM UTILITIES - Some older system utilities and
    application programs (memory managers, disk caches, RAM
    disks, etc.) do not observe current industry standards for
    DOS protected-mode operation. We recommend that you upgrade
    such utilities to more recent versions.

  o KEYBOARD COMPATIBILITY - On some systems, combinations of the
    keyboard, the BIOS, and one or more utilities loaded into
    high memory may cause the cursor keys in TPX.EXE to produce
    highlighting in the editor or to insert numeric characters in
    an edit window. If you experience these or similar keyboard
    problems, use the KEYB.COM program provided with your DOS.
    Edit your AUTOEXEC.BAT file to contain the line:

      KEYB US

    and reboot your computer.

  o RUNNING WINDOWS FROM TPX DOS SHELL - Starting Windows in
    enhanced mode from a DOS shell created by TPX is unsafe.
    Normally Windows refuses to load in enhanced mode under such
    conditions, but in certain situations it can hang the system.
    If you do run Windows from a TPX DOS shell, always start
    Windows in Standard mode.

  o 386^MAX DPMI SERVER - There are known problems with pre-6.02
    versions of the 386^Max DPMI server. We recommend that you
    obtain and use their latest version (or use the Borland DPMI
    server contained in this package instead).

  o COMPAQ VDISK - If you are running on a Compaq 386 with Compaq
    DOS v3.31, you should not use the Compaq VDISK. This version
    of VDISK is not compatible with DOS protected-mode
    applications like TPX.

  o OS/2 AND TPX DOS SHELL - If you run TPX under OS/2, push a
    DOS shell and then run another DOS protected-mode
    application, both applications MUST use Borland's
    protected-mode loader.

    There is a known problem in OS/2 that will cause the DOS
    session to crash after the second application terminates if
    it uses a different loader. This will be fixed in a future
    release of OS/2's DOS protected-mode support.

    Note that it is not safe to start Paradox 4.0 from a TPX DOS
    shell.


6. IMPORTANT NOTE FOR BORLAND C++ AND PARADOX 4.0 USERS
-------------------------------------------------------
The DPMILOAD.EXE and DPMI16BI.OVL files provided with this
release replace the older ones that came with Paradox 4.0 and
BC++ 3.0 or later. Delete or rename the older versions and put
\TP\BIN on your DOS path (so Paradox and BC can use the newer
ones).

If you want to be able to run BC++ or Paradox from within
TPX.EXE, you will need to use the EXTLEAVE option for the RTM
environment variable in order to leave enough memory available.
For example, you can set aside 2 MB for other programs by using:

  SET RTM=EXTLEAVE 2048

See the printed documentation for more information regarding the
RTM environment variable.

If you plan to shell out from Paradox or BC++ to run TPX.EXE,
limit the amount of extended memory used by those programs. For
Paradox, use its /extk command-line parameter; for BC++, use its
/x command-line parameter. Refer to their documentation for more
information on the use of command-line options.

Here's a summary for troubleshooting purposes:

  1.  Are there any copies of DPMILOAD.EXE or DPMI16BI.OVL on the
      path prior to those provided in \TP\BIN or in the same
      directories as BC.EXE or PARADOX.EXE? If so, replace them
      with Turbo Pascal 7.0's newer versions, or remove them and
      set your DOS path correctly.

  2.  Have you set the RTM environment variable? For example:

        SET RTM=EXTLEAVE 2048

  3.  If starting Paradox or BC first, have you used the required
      command-line options?


7. TURBO PASCAL 7.0 AND THE OS/2 WORKPLACE SHELL
------------------------------------------------
These are the steps for creating a program icon for TPX.EXE under
the OS/2 2.0 Workplace Shell:

  1.  From the OS/2 desktop, double-click the Templates folder
      to open it, grab the Program icon and drop it onto the
      desktop or another folder.

  2.  When the Program Settings dialog box appears, enter the
      following:

        Path and file Name: *
                Parameters: /C C:\TP\BIN\TPX.EXE
         Working directory: C:\TP\BIN

      Substitute the appropriate drive/path as needed.

  3.  Click the Session thumb tab and select DOS full screen
      or DOS window as desired.

  4.  Click on the General thumb tab and enter Turbo Pascal 7.0
      for the program title.

  5.  Double-click the Close button.

                      *    *    *    *    *
